# Computer-Science-ISU
this is a ISU project for ms.rastegars grade 11 computer science classs
    
We begin by starting the "Setup Stage" by having the user input unique team names stored in an ArrayList named "teamnames". After checking for duplicates using a while loop and if/else statements, we print the confirmed 8 team names finishing the "Setup Stage". 

Beginning the "Group Stage", we randomly assign the 8 teams into two different groups, storing them in two Arrays named "GroupA" and "GroupB", printing the names after they are assigned. We then simulate the matches using random scores between 0-5 goals per each team for both teams, giving 3 points for a win, 1 point for a tie, 0 for a loss. We add the points to each teams individual points in the "GroupA_pts" array that matches the index of points for each team in the "GroupA" array. We then do the same with Group B. Next we print the points, goals scored, and goals scored against each team has in the Group stage of the tournament .Finally we calculate the top two teams in each Group with a for loop that iterates through each teams points and stores the index of the top two teams of each group in the variables "largest_A", "second_lrgst_A", "largest_B", and "second_lrgst_B".    

For the Playoff stage we simulate the semi-finals and final match of the tournament while ensuring no ties with penalties for tied matches. We do the same thing that we did when simulating the Group Stage but when a tie is reached we go to penalties and get a random number between 0-5 to simulate the points scored in the penalties and if the penalties scored is a tie we go to sudden death penalties which is after each round of penalties if one team misses a penalty but the other scores the team that scores the penalty wins the game. This is summulated by using a while loop that runs when the variable game_over is false, when the while loop is running it is generating a random number between 1(scored penalty) and 0(missed penalty) if one team misses a penalty and the other scores it that team that scores wins and moves on to the final each team that wins gets the index of their team in the GRoup array stored in the int variable "winner1" and "Winner2" we also have a boolean to check if the team that won is in Group A or Group B so that we can simulate the correct winner of the semi final. For the final we do the same match format for the match making sure to add points for wins and losses and collect all the goals scored and goals scored against for each team.

Lastly in the champion stage we display the teams with the most goals scored in each group by using a for loop to sort the Group_A_Goals array, But to make sure that the indexs match up with the teams in the group so we create two temporary variable that will hold the goals scored and the team name. we then do the same with goals scored against for each group. and finsih with closing the scanner.